---
title: Lavender in your home
---
<p><strong>October 2011</strong></p><p><span style="color: #800080;">These ideas are from <em> The Naturally Clean Home</em> by Karyn Siegel-Maier</span></p><p><span style="color: #800080;">Did you know that you can use Lavender to<em><strong> polish wood</strong></em>?  This is how you do it:  Combine 1/4 cup of linseed oil with 3 drops of lavender essential oil in a glass bowl.  Apply lightly to wood with a clean soft cloth.  Rub into the wood using a circular motion and a soft cloth.  Using another clean soft cloth, wipe the surface.  You can store this is a glass jar with a tight fitting lid.  Make up a larger batch but be sure to shake it to mix the oils before each use.  Your wood will look so good ~ and just think how it will smell.</span></p><p><span style="color: #800080;">Here is another neat trick for <strong><em>polishing Stainless Steel</em></strong> <em><strong>or your Barbeque Grill</strong></em>   In a glass bowl combine 1/2 cup of water with 5 teaspoons of baking soda and 10 drops of lavender essential oil.  It will make a thin paste, adding a bit more baking soda if necessary to make it pasty.  Blend well and using a soft cloth wipe this onto any stainless steel appliance exterior using a circular motion.  Rinse with plain water or a solution of equal parts water and white vinegar.  Buffing with a dry soft cloth will give your stainless steel appliances lots of shine.  And the smell. . . .mmmm</span></p><p><span style="color: #800080;">Now you can<em><strong> eliminate those </strong><strong>funny odors in your car</strong></em>.  Were did they come from anyway?  Get yourself an 8 ounce plastic spray bottle and add the following ingredients:  3/4 cup water, 1/4 cup vinegar, 10 drops lavender essential oil, 4 drops lemon essential oil, and 2 drops peppermint essential oil.  Shake it up really well and holding the spray bottle about 6 to 8 inches from the surfaces, lightly mist the carpet and upholstery.  Leave the windows and doors open for a while.  Don&#8217;t let your pets inside for a while as the essential oils will irritate their paws and noses (and tongues when they lick themselves off).</span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><strong>November 2011</strong></p><p><span style="color: #800080;">Does your cat litter smell? Do you just love your cat but hate the smell of the litter box? Have you spent big money on pricey cat litter hoping to get rid of the smell? Try adding a small amount of dried Lavender buds to the box. You will notice a difference immediately and after a short while the air around the litter box will smell like lavender. What a treat!! So simple and inexpensive!  And as lavender is in the mint family, as is catnip, Kitty will be happy, too.</span></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><strong>January 2012</strong></p><p><span style="color: #800080;">During the winter time our homes are closed up in an effort to stay warm.  Unless we live in the south we don&#8217;t open our windows and refresh the air with breezes.  We can refresh with the purifying, calming, soothing, and uplifting scent of lavender in many ways throughout our homes.  Here are just a few ideas that are simple and will bring the scent of lavender into every room in our homes. </span></p><ul><li><span style="color: #800080;">throw some dried lavender stems on a dying fire in your fireplace</span></li><li><span style="color: #800080;">burn lavender scented candles in any room to refresh</span></li><li><span style="color: #800080;">use lavender sachets in clothes closets, drawers, and linen closets</span></li><li><span style="color: #800080;">keep a bowl of dried lavender buds in your bedroom</span></li><li><span style="color: #800080;">add a few drops of lavender essential oil to your furnace filter to freshen the whole house</span></li><li><span style="color: #800080;">boil 3 tablespoons of lavender buds in about 4 cups of water.  After letting it sit until it is cool (steeping) put it in a spray bottle and use it on pets and their sleeping areas.</span></li><li><span style="color: #800080;">sprinkle some lavender buds under the couch cushions to spread their fragrance as you sit on the couch and later when you vacuum them up.</span></li><li><span style="color: #800080;">add 8 to 10 drops of lavender essential oil to a warm bath to relax you ready for bed</span></li><li><span style="color: #800080;">add a bowl of lavender buds to that table by the front door to greet your guests</span></li><li><span style="color: #800080;">add lavender oil to your air purifier</span></li><li><span style="color: #800080;">use lavender buds in place of other carpet fresheners</span></li><li><span style="color: #800080;">place lavender in your basement or pantry to discourage insects</span></li><li><span style="color: #800080;">plant lavender around your home, your patio or other out-door living space, and around your garden to discourage insects</span></li><li><span style="color: #800080;">refresh a pot pourri with a few drops of lavender essential oil</span></li><li><span style="color: #800080;">use a few drops of lavender essential oil in a lamp oil ring to give off its fragrance as the light bulb heats the oil</span></li><li><span style="color: #800080;">add a drop of lavender essential oil to the final rinse of delicate laundry to impart its fragrance to your laundry</span></li><li><span style="color: #800080;">add lavender essential oil to a diffuser</span></li><li><span style="color: #800080;">mix some lavender essential oil with lamp oil to offset the lamp oil odor and add fragrance to  the room</span></li></ul><p>&nbsp;</p><p>&nbsp;</p>
